docs(tem): quickstart and how-tos (#942)
scaleway/docs-content: managed-services/transactional-email/concepts.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Transactional Email - Concepts
  description: This page explains all the concepts related to Scaleway’s Transactional Email service
content:
  h1: Transactional Email - Concepts
  paragraph: This page explains all the concepts related to Scaleway’s Transactional Email service
tags: advanced settings
categories:

> - network

Reviewer: managed services ?

---

Transactional Email is a platform that allows you to send personalized emails to individuals.

<Concept opened>

## Deliverability

> Deliverability is the ability of an email to arrive in a recipient’s email inbox.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deliverability is the ability for an email to arrive in a recipient’s email inbox.
```

</Concept>

<Concept opened>

## DKIM record

A Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM) record is an email security standard. It provides you with an encryption key and a digital signature that allows you to verify whether an email was altered.

</Concept>

<Concept>

## DNS propagation

DNS propagation is the time a DNS change takes to be updated across the Internet.

</Concept>

<Concept>

## IP reputation

IP reputation measures the trustworthiness of an IP address and the amount of unwanted requests it sends. An IP address that sends authentic, spam-free emails, is assigned a good IP reputation. An IP address that sends high amounts of spam or viruses is assigned a bad IP reputation. IP reputation allows you to reject requests that are coming from an IP address with a bad reputation.

</Concept>

<Concept>

## MX record

> A mail exchanger (MX) record is a DNS record that is necessary for delivering emails to your address. An MX record is used to tell the world which mail servers accept incoming mail for your domain and where emails sent to your domain should be routed to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A mail exchanger (MX) record is a DNS record that is required to deliver emails to your address. An MX record is used to tell the world which mail servers accept incoming mails for your domain and where emails sent to your domain should be routed to.
```

</Concept>

<Concept>

## Send API

A send API is the main API that is used to send transactional emails to recipients.

</Concept>

<Concept>

## SMTP relay

SMTP relay is the process of transferring an email from one mail server to another.

</Concept>

<Concept>

## SPF record

> An SPF record is an email authentication method that allows you to protect senders and recipients from spam and phishing attacks. SPF also prevents spammers from sending emails on behalf of your domain.

Reviewer 3: The SPF record is not an auth method, it "just" tells recipient's MX which servers are legitimate to send mails to them on your behalf.
So only the 2nd part of the sentence is relevant here.

</Concept>

> <Concept opened>

Reviewer 4: Don't know if this one should be opened since it's at the end of the list?

## Transactional Email

> Transactional Email is a platform that allows you to send transactional emails. Transactional emails are personalized emails sent to individuals in response to events they have triggered (e.g. password recovery, billing information, delivery updates, etc). 

Reviewer 3: Maybe state the difference with marketing emails, which are not accepted in this product?
